# Dashboard Menu

The last thing we have not talked about much is this menu over here, which is actually the key to creating a true dashboard as well. Not surprisingly, it goes back to our configuration. In config, under design, we have a menu item and it works like a lot of other places. First thing we could do is we could just list all of our entity names, including our custom one, Genus Horde. We do this just to reorder them. Remember, these keys here are coming from the keys that we picked under our configuration, which of course could be anything.

Now with this, we're gonna move user from the bottom all the way to the top. There's a lot more that you can do with the menu. For example, we can use it to create a custom dashboard. So real quick, let's set up a little pretend dashboard. If you downloaded the course code, you should have a tutorial directory. Inside, there's an admin controller, which you put there just so we can copy this nice little dashboard action. Then I'm gonna go into our SRC app bundle controller, easy admin controller, go into our admin controller and we're going to paste that there.

So this creates a new slash dashboard with name admin underscore dashboard. I am missing my U statement for route, so I'm going to retype that and hit type so it auto completes my U statement up here. Perfect. This renders a template, which I will also grab from our tutorial directory, put that in app resources views, easy admin bundle.

So now we have a functional page, and what we want is we want this to be the default URL that we go to when we go to the admin section. So right now, if you go to slash easy admin, it's going to take you to whatever the first menu item is, so it was genus, now it takes us to, oh it's still genus. It takes us to genus.

Change that, add a new menu item, we'll say ... and we'll use the expanded format, which likes most things in the admin has a label, and here you can add a key called route admin dashboard. And the key here is default true. So there are a number of different ways that you can create menu items. You can link to your specific entity sections, or you can use the route key, just don't link to a random route. But in this case, default true is an important part because that means when we go to easy admin, main page ... Whoa, we get an error. But look, it did actually redirect slash easy admin slash dashboard, which is what we wanted. And the error is actually because I forgot another U statement for my genus class. So let's add that up top. There we go, and now we can see our beautiful dashboard.

Perfect. And this is our new admin homepage. All right, so what else can we do? Well not surprisingly, we can expand the simple entity things into something else to take more control. The most obvious thing we can do is give it a label. So in the expanded format, you'll point to it with an entity key, entity colon user, and then you can say label, users. Now another way that you can specify the label is actually under the user entity, we could have specified a label here, and that would be everywhere. If we put it onto the menu key, we're just changing the label for the menu itself.

And we'll just do the same thing down here for genus note. Label notes, and lets do for subfamilies as well. Entity subfamily, label subfamilies. And before we check that out, let's keep going. Because like a lot of sections in here, we can give these icons. So how about icon user, icon sticky dash note, and icon empty quotes. Because by default, you see you have a little arrow icon, so that's actually going to remove that little arrow icon.

Perfect. In additional links, you can also start to add separators and groups and sub links. So before the genus, if you want, you can actually create something with just a label. So in this case, we don't have a route, we don't have an entity, so we're not actually linking to anything. So that gives us just this nice separator, which is kind of nice. Or, you can go a step further and create a sub menu. So I'm going to change this new menu item into expanded format, and below we'll add a children key. We'll expand everything below that.

Just to make it even nicer, let's add another separator here called related. Now, we get this nice drop down menu, and the separator. You can also link to kind of custom versions of your pages. So for example, we have a way where we can link to the genus and that's going to use whatever normal sorting we have set up for genus. But if we want to, we can actually add another link that links to the same section, with a different label, genuses sorted by ID, and the key here is we can pass params, which are going to be query parameters passed to that. And the query parameters for sorting are sort field, we can say ID, and sort direction ascending. And you can pass whatever you want here, like pizza delicious. Just happens to be that sort field, and sort direction do something, pizza won't do anything of course, unless we are actually doing something, reading that in our code. So refresh, now we got our genuses sorted by ID, and we see our fields up here. We're sorting ID ascending and we have our extra pizza query parameter.

On that note, one of the other query parameters is action. So I'll copy this section and at the top of children, let's actually link again to genus, this time we're going to link to a single genus, we'll call it our pet genus. This time, we're going to case action, show ID two. One of the IDs in our database. Perfect. This isn't anything special, it's just taking advantage of how the query parameters work up here. And of course, while we're setting this up, one other nice thing might be at the top to actually have it link to our front end. This is of course, nothing special, our front end on this side is a route called app genus list. We'll add a label for open front end.

So using the route method, we can get a lot of nice work done. I'll open that up in a new tab, there we go. So the last thing you can do is you can actually just link to URLs, if you need to link externally occasionally. So I'm actually going to go down to the bottom of our list and make sure we're at the root level, I am. Let's add a new section called important stuff, icon explanation, add some children, and I'll actually paste in a couple of important links here, externally for silly kittens and wet cats. And the only thing that's different on here is that you have URL, so instead of the entity key or the route key, which are the two ways that we're linking to things so far, in this case, we have a URL key and you can also add a target equals blank, and you can add that really to anything.

So now, our admin menu is complete. So the last thing I want to show you isn't anything specific to this bundle, it's just a nice idea with this bundle, and that's organizing your configuration, because as you can see, once we are finished, our admin configuration goes form line 81 of config dot yml to link 258. It's taking up a lot of space. So one nice thing to do is just to create a new file called admin dot yml, and then just move that stuff there. So copy all of this stuff, remove it, pop into the admin dot yml, perfect. And then we just need to make sure that Symfony sees this, we can go do the traditional way. The top of app config dot yml, we'll just load that as another resource. And that is it. When we refresh, we should see no difference.

All right, guys, that is everything. Easy admin bundle is great, but of course, depending on how custom you need to make it, you might need to override templates on your list page or create custom form things or do custom things with your menu. A lot of it can be done in configuration to keep your life simple, but ultimately by using the tools that we've talked about, you can really override anything, and still ultimately probably going to be a lot faster than building all of this yourself. All right guys, thanks for joining us, see you next time.

