# Fake Custom Field

Let's look at one more way to really, really custom stuff. So down here, this is our collection type, which is ugly, but it works. But the only reason it works is that in a previous tutorial, we did a lot of work with our relationships to make sure this was set up correctly.

If you're having a hard time figuring out how to get your collection type to work or even if you can, if this interface is just not good enough for you, then write your own. What I'm going to do is I want to basically not use this field at all. Instead, write my own html JavaScript to basically create my own widget, which uses ajax to delete and maybe even add new genus scientist entries. Now we're not going to do all of that now but I'm going to show you the set up so that you can start writing your custom code.

So inside of our config dot yml, here's our genus scientist field. It's under the genus entity, it's under form, it's under fields. Right now it's the collection type. I'm going to change that to text. But as you'll see in a second, that really doesn't matter. I'm now going to delete all these options below, and I'm going to add a very special one call mapped, false. As soon as I do that, this is no longer a real field. It doesn't call get genus scientist when you render it, and it doesn't call set genus scientist when we set it. In fact, you could change that property to be anything. Even a property that doesn't exist because it's simply not a really field anymore. It's not mapped to your entity.

It's just a way for us to sneak a fake field into easy admin bundle. Then below, let's also add a class. We'll say add a class called JS dash scientist, scientist field. Cool. If we just do this, that field is going to be rendered as an empty test field. Empty because it's not bound to our entity at all. So how can we take control? I want to be able to put my own code right where this text box is. The answer is work with the form system. In other words, we're going to create a custom form theme. With a custom form theme, that just overrides the widget for this one field on this one form. How do we do that? Well I want you clipboard and open the profiler for the form component.

Then go down to genus scientist, then open up the view variables, and find one called block prefixes. This is the key for knowing what block you should create a form theme to override this one field. For example, we could override text underscore widget, or form underscore widget, or underscore genus, underscore genus scientist, underscore widget if we wanted to override just this one field on this one form. So, that is actually the key. So I'm gonna copy this key here, and then we're going to create a new custom form theme. So in app, resources, views, we'll do an easy admin, let's create a new file called underscore form, underscore theme, dot html twig. And we're going to create that lock, underscore genus, underscore genus scientist, underscore widget so that we can customize just the widget part of that form.

And are you feeling powerful yet? If you're not, you will in a second. Because now that they have this, we need to point easy admin bundle ... Easy admin bundle needs to use our form theme. In previous tutorials, we've learned how to add custom form themes to our entire application but in this case, we really only want this inside of our easy admin area.

So inside config dot yml, at the top, under the design section, it actually has a way to do this. We're going to say form themes, and we're actually going to add two. We're going to say a horizontal, and then we're going to list the [inaudible 00:04:48]. Easy underscore admin slash underscore form, underscore theme dot html dot twig.

So easy admin bundle actually ships with two different custom form themes, horizontal and vertical. The difference between them being how the labels and widgets are stacked. When you add your own custom form theme, you need to remember to put horizontal or vertical as the first item, or else you'll lose the base form theme from easy admin bundle.

All right, that's it. Let's try it. Close the profiler, refresh, boom, explosion. Unrecognized option form themes under easy admin dot design. Because, it is form theme. Thank you validation. Check this out, we've got it. We just added a fake field that we can now fully control. Which means, we can put anything here. We can just put an empty div and then via JavaScript, add a react application to it. The possibilities are endless.

So let me give you just a simple example to get the mind working. Lets at least create a table where we list all the genus scientists. So I'll say, table, t body, and here I'm going to loop over all of genus scientist inside of the genus. The question is, what variables do I have access to right here? If you go back to your form theme, your form profiler, you go to genus scientists, if you look at view variables, these are all the variables that we actually have access to from within our form theme. Now because we set this to mapped false, we actually don't have access to our genus object, which is a problem. But when you're inside admin bundle, they actually give you special easy admin variable, which has an item key, which is the genus. In other words, we can use this is the admin dot item dot genus scientist variable to get what we need.

So let's loop for genus scientist, in easy admin dot item dot genus scientists. Just like that. We'll create a TR, and we'll just print out a couple fields here, genus scientist, dot user, year studied, and year studied. We'll also add kind of a fake link here. It'll be like a delete link. We'd say JS delete scientist, we set a data URL or we can use a path function to maybe a delete end point that we created, inside here we'll say and times.

And that's it. Then, just to take the example a little bit further, inside of our web JS directory, we already have that custom backend JS, and you can get much fancier with your JavaScript, but you can also keep it very simple. We can attach a click listener to that function, prevent the default and for now we'll just put an alert with a to do on there.

So, let's go back, refresh, try that, and there it is. Our little table down here, complete with fake delete icon. So there's still more work to do but now, you can do it. It's just coding. Create some end points and write some JavaScript. Put a react widget in there if you want to. It's up to you.

